foreign
[Music]
accomplishment where we explore how
deepening connection with ourselves and
others leads to creating the life we
want with enjoyment and ease I'm Brett
Kistler here today with my co-host Joe
Hudson
hey Brett hey hey hey I want to do
something different today I want to ask
you questions I want to interview you
and the the reason I want to interview
you is because you're just
your understanding of safety and fear I
think is so unique given both like being
a CEO of a company and
um
and doing Air Sports losing friends
um a lot of friends in Air Sports
that I wanted to kind of go into your
story of how you've process safety and
fear
um and I just think there's a lot to
learn there for everybody and
also I think it'd just be nice for
everybody to know like a little bit more
about you and your story so I was hoping
that we could I could just interview you
on on safety and fear
yeah let's do it we were just uh we were
just recording the second limiting
beliefs episode just before this and one
of the things that we were talking about
was this was this thing around safety
where it's we're afraid to try on
different beliefs or see through our
beliefs and explore different ways of
being because we haven't proven that
it's safe and this is something that's
been really really big in my life for a
very long time and specifically in the
world of base jumping and paragliding
and just Air Sports where
you know the the attachment to safety
really shows up
um
and
yeah so I'd love to get into that a
little bit more yeah so I just had a
curiosity so what does safety mean to
you like what
like that can mean a lot of things to a
lot of people and I'm wondering what it
means to you
yeah I mean safety
first of all safety is an illusion
nothing nothing is safe it's more of a
it's we will call something safe if we
feel comfortable if we feel like we can
be in flow if we feel like we are
capable of navigating the environment
navigating the jump we're about to do
navigating building a company navigating
our relationship if we feel like
we are going to survive it or the what
we care about is going to survive
um yeah
so
well when did you come to that
conclusion
like how did how did you get there how
did you get that's a pretty
sophisticated thought process right
which is like safety just means that I'm
convinced I'm comfortable right
basically and and how did you get there
because I'm sure that that wasn't the
way you were born so how did that happen
well let's let's kind of go back to when
when I started base jumping and when I
started when I started jumping
uh you know reading reading all the
limited literature that there was at the
time and talking to people they were
like okay this is a very dangerous sport
there's nothing you can do to make it
safe you can make it
less dangerous
um but ultimately there's a very real
risk that you'll die there's a very real
risk that you'll have
in major injuries that you'll spend
years recovering from and maybe never
fully and that happens all the time to
people and it's going to happen to some
of your friends if you're in the sport
for long enough
um and it might be you and you're the
friend that people are talking about
and so so kind of getting into that is
like okay well I I still feel really
drawn into this Sport and so I I spent a
lot of time sort of meditating on that
and I'd find myself just kind of
sitting and imagining what it would be
like if I broke my legs and you know
injured my spine and kind of did the
seeing through seeing through that
negative outcome seeing through that
consequence and being like well if if
that happened
what would what would be left would I be
would I be somebody who's in a
wheelchair and then dedicating my life
to
studying neuroscience and
solving you know spinal cord injuries or
would I be somebody who just gives up
and it's like well I I feel like I'd
want to be the person who'd continue
doing something continue I feel like I
could continue to find meaning
sorry go ahead yeah I guess yeah with
that without a that was seeing through
those things was enough for me to feel
safe going into the activity which was
to say that I felt comfortable that even
if something happened to me uh there
would still be like I would be okay with
that outcome
um because the exploration was worth it
did you ever did you ever just think
I'm like there's something wrong like
I'm crazy there's something wrong with
me like why would I do something like
that did those thoughts ever happen
oh yeah all the time yeah yeah yeah yeah
and yeah and sometimes I got off on it a
little bit you know like oh yeah I'm
crazy I'm one of those crazy ones yeah
whatever right yeah yeah yeah I can even
see the perfect reading you yeah yeah
exactly
hold my beer yeah
and so so that's interesting so the and
so what because what you're saying is
what to some degree what you're saying
here is that like
you got comfortable with it and
therefore it felt safe
but the comfort in it is
um
is very
it's on some level it's very uh
individualistic right the the what you
could find comfortable when somebody
else finds comfortable could be very
different things but also Comfort is
based to some degree on what's happened
in your past
and the way that you gain Comfort here
was looking towards your future
which is interesting and it does an
interesting thing to to note yeah yeah
it's looking at looking at the possible
Futures and saying hey is this is this
something that I could be comfortable
with
um and and like we talked about in
limiting beliefs it wasn't so that I
would go ahead and get myself injured
and be in a wheelchair it was that so I
could explore life feeling unconstricted
and unconstrained yeah and one thing
that I learned about safety is that it
can become safety can become an idea
that we use to stop seeing reality so
that we feel
comfortable
and
that can be helpful for us you know like
the first time you're making a base jump
there's certain things that you need to
pay attention to and there's also
certain things that just might be
overwhelming if you're considering them
so you focus on the task you focus on
the training you focus on what you're
about to do and you try not to think too
much about
your mother crying when you die because
that might just be something that takes
you out of the flow I've had moments
where there was there was there was one
jump that I did
um in Europe where I jumped my wingsuit
and I was flying down a mountain and
there was a section where if you were
flying at a at a good enough glide ratio
you could then fly over another mountain
and then have like a whole another
several thousand feet of of flight
and I found myself like just kind of I
was gonna make it I thought I was gonna
make it and
I was pretty sure I was gonna make it
and it's just like it flashed through my
head of this like
I I had this imagining of my my
girlfriend at the time getting a phone
call
and I like that all of a sudden took me
out of it I was like I'm not gonna make
it I like kind of panic pulled my
parachute ended up Landing in some
uh someone's backyard somewhere in the
middle of France and like I bailed and I
survived and I also did not do it very
gracefully like right I let I let in
information that disregulated me and
yeah constriction occurred and then I
had to bail
um so yeah safety
safety like that that kind of just
brings it back to this point where like
I've learned safety is an idea that we
use to feel safe but there's
it it can bring us into contact with
reality and it can take us out of
contact with reality right like if I'm
if I'm standing on an exit point and I
want to feel safe so that I jump like
let's say that I really want to feel
safe and make this jump because I'm with
a group of people and I don't want them
to have to climb down this mountain with
me that we just climbed up and I don't
want them to have to wait by the car
while I climb down so I'm more afraid of
disappointing people and not being seen
than I am of the jump then I might just
dissociate myself from some of the risks
of the jump so that I reach this point
where I'm like aha okay I'm safe
right right yeah so
on that for a second what how
so I would assume it's really important
when you're on
when you're on that the base that you're
jumping off of so to speak
that you know which one you're doing
like it how do you know when
you are using the idea of safety to
detach from reality and when do you know
when you're using that sense of safety
to be more in contact with your reality
because it seems like
with base jumping more in contact with
reality is good
yeah
In This Moment is good yeah
and that's how do you how do you
distinguish
yeah that's a good question
um a lot something that we've said a lot
in the in the sport and this comes from
other places too is that the the other
side of the coin of fear is excitement
and if I'm if I'm feeling a grounded
level of excitement and anticipation and
I feel like my body is
amped in such a way that is like
metabolically prepared for what I'm
about to do and I feel that I'm in flow
and I feel like flow is accessible to me
yeah and I'm also continuing I'm not
just reaching that state because I'm
closing putting on the blinders I'm
reaching that state because I'm
welcoming any red flags that there might
be
and yeah just you're not to be found
Everything feels right
so there's a certain kind of grounded
excitement that occurs there
it also sounds like if you notice any
defensiveness in your system that's a
red flag
yeah
yeah yeah defensiveness in the system or
just what what makes me not want to talk
about the wind conditions over that
Ridge over there like yes what's making
me focus on like what's making me focus
on that it's a nice bright sunny day and
not on that I'm really tired and we were
out late partying last night and I'm
you know I'm not really feeling on it
right now is it well the amazing thing
is is this is such a
this is such a metaphor for business
right it's like the things that we don't
talk about which are usually get us in
trouble though they're kind of in the
side of our mind like something's not
happening right right there but
let's not pay attention to it
yeah yeah you imagine a in a boardroom
once everybody just if there's a if
there's a risk and you're assessing the
risk
and
nobody in the room is willing to
actually feel through the consequence of
yeah taking you know taking a wrong
action in that risk then you might or or
the consequence of like
the action you may have to take may be
more difficult you may not want to lay
people off you may not want to lay off
somebody you have a personal attachment
or relationship to and since you're not
willing to look at that you're far more
likely to be like oh here's a story
about how it's safe
yeah you know we're actually going to be
fine because XYZ rather than really
seeing the the deeper reality yeah
um so yeah this is this is a
something that just has a it's been a
conversation around the base jumping
Community for a long time of people
people will start to identify as like Oh
I'm a safe jumper that person's not a
safe jumper or this is a safe kind of
jump and that's not a safe kind of
Jumper is this jump safe for a beginner
jumper like me or like the answer is no
to all of those things but
but the answer is like well what are the
risks and how how do you as an organism
interact with your environment
given those conditions and
do you have the experience does your
body have the experience does your body
when you're standing on the edge of this
cliff and you're about to jump
does your body have enough
history
of similar situations that it's like
yeah we got this I know what to do it's
like jumping into a swimming pool
yeah and if not so then that shows up in
in a somatic experience and you'd ask
like what it feels like and it spoke
about grounded excitement and another
one is ungrounded excitement you know if
if you're really excited but there's
like
that excitement is sort of covering up a
little bit of anxiety and you're not
letting that anxiety move through and
integrate into your excitement then
you're going to find yourself a little
bit bouncy
yeah
um and then there's another another way
that can look is just straight anxiety
yeah and by the way that can look is
anxiety funneling through to anger
you know sometimes people get angry at
an exit point if they're if they're
scared or they'll they'll find someone
else to be kind of like though like
triple gear check someone else and like
be super sure that you know the the
least experienced jumper on the the load
is safe
gotcha all right
yeah there's all there's all kinds of
ways that it comes out but if if you're
they're all a form of not being grounded
in yourself
and you're feeling feeling your body
and how much is this applied to your
business like you're in a room with your
with the people running your business
with you
how much does that feel like
sitting at a entry point how how much
are you monitoring your body the same
way how much are you
yeah interesting interestingly my
business is fully remote so sitting in a
room is a is an experience that I rarely
get with my team yeah
um so a lot a lot of my a lot of my time
with my business is actually spent
sitting with myself and deciding what to
do next which might be calling a meeting
it might be
uh I might be doing some strategy it
might be just getting some work done
and if I'm with it if I'm with a team
and we're talking
um
yeah that's that it's the same thing
um I find that for myself one way that I
will leave the present moment leave my
Leave myself will be to find something
to get excited about like oh yeah the
numbers are scary the economy just
tanked everything's a mess and look at
all this opportunity out there right and
that's a looking at the opportunity is a
wonderful thing to do and clinging to
the opportunity grasping for it
there's a there's a difference there's a
different feeling in that yeah not
grounded and not grounded excitement is
what yeah it's here it sounds like yeah
yeah yeah yeah
and so thank you for the same signal
okay that that informs whether I'm gonna
jump or not jumper how I'm gonna jump
yeah yeah yeah and it really relates
back to something that we've we've
talked about before which is it's it's
about the inner security the more
dependent you are on external security
then the more internally insecure you're
gonna feel
yeah uh for example if it's
you know if it's
if it's something about external
conditions and
um
let me let me find the real metaphor
there
yeah so
so let's say I'm let's say I'm standing
on a cliff and I'm about to jump and
there's something
you know something that needs to happen
performance wise something that I need
to execute and I imagine jumping
and I'm visualizing this and I might
visualize myself
throwing the wrong axis of rotation like
I might visualize myself
failing to get my wingsuit flying I
might visualize myself failing to outfly
a certain ledge
and
having like allowing myself to feel
those possible outcomes yeah as I'm
preparing to do something allowing
myself to feel what it would be like to
have that occur and recover from it have
that occur and not recover from it have
that occur and have that last oh
moment before impact
yeah and just having all of that like
all of that possibility
moving through my body and integrating
is something that allows me to when I
actually make the jump
if something goes a little bit awry I
know like my my body knows what to do an
example is walking on a walking on a
slack line if you guys if you if anyone
listening to this has ever seen people
walk a slack line it's like this uh one
inch piece of webbing that can be tied
between two trees or it can be you know
set up between two Cliffs uh like a
thousand feet in the air
and one of the things that I love to say
about learning to Slackline is that it's
actually the art of learning to fall off
when you first stand on the thing you
feel so insecure your your legs just
wiggle and shudder and you fall right
off and you're like how am I ever going
to be able to walk this thing
and then I I like to tell people like
you the line is not insecure at all the
line is just perfectly stable the only
insecurity that's being brought into the
system is what you're bringing to it
it's your muscles over correcting
it's your top down trying to think your
way through it and initially yeah you're
gonna fall
but the more the more you do it the more
internal stability you develop and then
the less over correcting your legs need
to do and then you find that the balance
is just a natural there's just a natural
point of balance on the line the line
wants to balance your body wants to
balance and it will just do it and
that's when you start getting to the
point where you can walk across you know
a mile long lines I haven't done that as
several of my friends have and people
just seeing they're like this is amazing
how do you do it
and it's like that's a really good
metaphor for the internal security
that
yeah it's interesting yeah go ahead go
ahead no the more
yeah just the more
the more internal security you develop
and this can occur in physical reality
could occur in your social reality or
business the more secure in yourself you
are the less you need any any specific
external conditions to be any certain
way
and the more you'll be able to remain in
flow through whatever conditions end up
occurring
yeah so what's interesting to me is that
somebody listening to this can be like
okay I have to learn to be balanced so
that I can be secure which is in itself
and over correction and a lack of
security
and
and they might have missed the point of
what you're saying here which is
learning learning to be secure is
learning to fall
and yeah
what is like a real story in Slackline
obviously you've Fallen a million times
but what's a real story of it like in
business or
in relationships or in
um even in in base jumping where a fall
has really taught you how to be secure
yeah let me think about that one for a
moment
um
yeah okay
yeah in 2009 I was in South Africa and I
had this was sort of a long journey I
had broken my arms skiing in Utah and
then continued to go on an Africa trip
anyway even though I had a broken arm I
was in Zambia with a friend
um
and then I re-broke the arm
doing some like Refugee smuggling on
motorcycles and having a crash and then
I got the news that my dad had lost his
job and he lost his health insurance and
I had like a couple hundred bucks
and I was doing some freelance work
online web work that wasn't particularly
consistent
um and so I had like a couple hundred
bucks and a broken arm and no health
insurance and uh I was like okay what am
I gonna do so I went to South Africa
um took a took a bus down to Cape Town
they've got good medical care there and
I was like I'm just going to
figure things out from South Africa and
get some get some Medical Care
and so I did that for a while and um
I I kind of sank into the city I really
loved it I was there for about a month
or so and then I went to go check my
bank account uh pull out some money from
the ATM and it was empty I was like what
and I I looked and the exchange rate had
actually halved almost in like the month
or two that I had been there and I
hadn't checked it
and so I was suddenly out of money and I
didn't know where my next money was
coming from and I was in this foreign
country
and luckily I'd already paid my rent for
like for that week so I had a place to
stay and I was just like okay well I've
got like nothing I have nobody no idea
what I'm gonna do so I just started
walking around to different like bars
and businesses on uh it was called Long
Street which is uh the main kind of
thoroughfare in Cape Town and I just
started writing down my name and phone
number on napkins and I walked into
businesses and I was like hey I'm a web
developer I mean like
y'all's websites look like they could
use a little bit of work I'd love to you
know help you out and um
I ended up getting one phone call from
that and
it didn't turn out to be the best client
but they're just like that was a process
where I was like I was out of money out
of everything and
and I still refer to that moment now
where like you know what if I actually
lost fully everything
it would it would suck I there's a lot
there's a lot that I love and that I'm
attached to about like material
possessions and you know access to
financial resources that I've had in my
life and
I also know that I can go back and just
write down my name on name and phone
number on napkins and do do something
from absolute scratch in a brand new
place in a brand new environment all
over again
yeah and yeah that's where I say like
walking the slack line you end up
learning some internal stability that
like you you build this experience over
the course of your life
yeah and like it's true that like a a
newborn baby doesn't have like their
their body has a biological stability it
has instincts and it's also not going to
successfully take care of itself
and then over time we do we do get our
feet under us and this is one of the
things where the the process of letting
go of limiting beliefs our identity lags
behind our actual growth
and the more the more that we see that
the more that we see that there actually
has always been an internal security and
an internal stability
and that's the kind of internal
stability that might make us be like hey
let me try something new like walking a
slackliner starting a business
and often often something happens that
that we forget
that we have that innate
innate security and stability that we
have the capacity to assess reality
wherever we're at
and
take steps
[Music]
awesome
well thanks for sharing a bit of your
life with us I really appreciate it and
I love your perspective on safety is
really wonderful thanks for sharing
everything
yeah thank you
thanks for listening to the art of
accomplishment if you enjoyed what you
heard today please subscribe and rate US
on your podcast app we'd love your
feedback so feel free to send us
questions or comments you can reach out
to us join our newsletter or check out
our courses at Art of accomplishment.com
foreign
[Music]